The bootstrap components that we looked at in the previous video were mostly about style about how our
various elements looked in this video.
We'll be looking at ones that are more about function and we'll be doing a bit of Jey queries as well
to interact with those elements.
And I'm going to start by looking at modals which are essentially pop up boxes to show your user some
information or to allow them to do its particular action like send a tweet or something like that.
So they're really useful.
And again you can use them without any javascript but we can use some javascript if we want to do something
a bit more fancy.
So I'm going for the live demo option.
Which I want to run on my site.
I don't want to spoil the surprise by trying it on the bootstrap site to see how it looks.
I've copied the whole code I'm going to get rid of everything here and then paste that code in.
So let's take a look and see what it does and then we'll run through the code.
So we've got now is a button click that motile appears.
So you can see it's got this nice kind of slide in from the top.
It fades out the background and makes the background clickable as well in that you can interact with
it.
But if you do click on the background it closes the modal which is what the user would expect.
And you've got two different buttons.
A close and a.
That could be a send button or an OK button depending on what the motor was doing.
So hopefully you can imagine a huge number of uses for that.
Let's have a quick look and see how the code works.
So the bus in itself is pretty straight forward.
It's just a button with classes to make it large and blue.
But we're toggling the existence of a motile here.
And the particular modal the target that we're working with has an ID of my motile and that's it.
That's all we need to give to the button on the modem itself.
We've got a div with a class of motile and then Faid because this is going to be fading motile you can
see if we remove the Faid class it still appears just a little bit more quickly.
So the phase kind of brings in a gradual slide from the top.
We've got that idea then this new attribute Kuttab index this is used because a lot of people navigate
through Web sites using the tab button or particularly through forms because the tab button can take
you from one form input to the next.
But we wouldn't want a user that was doing that to end up on our mobile.
We set the tab index to minus one and then anything on this Modal won't be considered part of the tap
flow as the use of taps through the content of the main page.
The role of the modal is a dialog box dialog essentially is another word for modal and then got some
accessibility information as well.
Then we've got another div within that which has a class of modal dialog.
This is the document so this is a kind of container for the modal itself.
Then we've got a container for the modal.
Then we've got a container for the head part of the modal bit easier if we can see them.
So there it is.
So the header has the X button on the right there which we saw in the previous video when we were looking
at alerts.
It says exactly the same as that.
And then we've got an H for with a particular class of modal title to fit in with the modal and ID.
And then the title itself then the modal body so we can put anything in there and then the modal furter
which generally will contain buttons to either do something or not do something depending on what the
user chooses.
So hopefully you get the idea that's how modals work.
But I want to use modals as a quick example of how we can use Jey query to interact bootstrap component
such as a mobile.
So if we go back and have a look at the bootstrap page on modals you can see we've got options and methods
and events here.
So you'll remember hopefully those from when we were looking at Jay Querrey plug ins specifically Jacquier
UI so options are things that we can add to our motile to make it display in a certain way.
Methods are making the motile do something.
So with methods we can make the modal do some things so toggle its existence for example show or hide
or apply some options to it.
And finally events are things that happen when the modem is interacting with.
So we might want to do something when the modem is shown for example and that's what I'm going to do
here.
I'm going to imagine that we've got three buttons which are all contacts buttons which send an e-mail.
So let's change our code from launch demo modal to e-mail.
Rob and then I'm going to have a second button email Keston and let's have a third button.
Email to me Rafi's too young to get e-mail at this point.
There we go.
So each of these links to the same motile
at that moment and what we want to avoid doing is having three completely different modals for each
of these because they're all going to have very similar code.
The only thing different is the e-mail address.
So let's see how we can work with the query in Bootstrap to make that happen with just one motile code.
So I jump through a lot of options there.
You're very welcome to look at those in more detail if you like but I'm more interested in the code
at this point.
So this is the main thing that we're going to be using.
So we use a J-20 selector as usual to select all modal.
And what we're looking at is we're looking at the event when the motile is shown and this is called
here show top bootstrap model.
Then when that happens we want to call a function which is the code that we can add down here.
And that function is going to have a variable called event which as we've seen before contains a bit
of information about what triggered the motile.
So let's copy everything over and see if we can figure a way to integrate it with our code so I'm going
to put my Jay queery Kate in its own script.
S. But make sure you do it after Jay query and bootstrap.
Otherwise you may have problems.
So let's get rid of these comments for the moment.
And in the end everything
nicely.
So let's work our way through this.
But invariable we get from event this variable here not related target.
So that gives us the button that was clicked and then we can take from that button it's data attributes.
So for example I might want to get the data name attribute and then I could very neatly set data Dasch
name attribute for each of these.
So Rob
Keston
and tell me and then I would I would be able to access that down here.
So for now before I do anything too fancy that's a lot recipient and we should find then that now when
we click on the button as well as launching the modal
it does the.
But of course it doesn't.
Why is that.
I think because I've kept it as example motile rather than my mobile which was the ID of the correct
motile that we actually used one of the dangers of copying and pasting especially from two different
sections.
There we go.
So now we've got our alert and motile as well.
Let's put those back in then we're using this this key word that we've seen before.
It's the motile that we're working with here.
So it's essentially my motile so I could use that as well and it would work exactly the same but this
makes it a bit more flexible if you update the ID here for some reason you don't need to update it there
as well.
And then we're looking within the motile and we're finding the class of modal title and then we're changing
that to have a text of new message to and then recipient and then we're updating an input there but
we don't have that input so I'm just going to get rid of that bit.
So now when we run it we should find that we get new message to rub a new message to cast an and new
message to tell me.
All right.
So that's how we work with the javascript here.
I'm going to give you a quick challenge.
Can you do something similar so that when the modal is closed you get an alert saying modal closed.
So really simple when the modal is closed.
Whichever one it is you get an alert saying modal closed.
Go for it.
Did you manage it.
You may have gone back to the bootstrap page to have a look at the events.
I think this one is going to be the one that we're interested in but let's have a look at the events.
So we've got high heat bootstrap motile.
We could also use hidden bootstrap motile which happens when the hiding process is complete.
So what we need is a string.
We want to select my modem again and we want to do something on heat dot bootstrap modal.
And the thing we want today is a function.
Again it's going to have an event even though we don't care about the details of that event.
And I don't mean to close my parentheses there and all we want to do is when the model is closed.
Alert motile closed.
All right let's check that in action.
Say the message to a great plays that down.
And of course it does nothing because I've got my hash symbol.
Just try that one more time.
There's told me close that down and modal closed.
So I noticed that this popped up actually just before the modal was closed.
If we wanted to have it just after we changed it to a hidden top strapped on modal and then we get the
alert after the middle is closed.
All right so hopefully that gives you a bit of insight into how you can interact with these bootstrap
javascript components and make them behave the way you want them to.
Let's just have a very quick look at a couple of the other cool javascript components.
First one we'll look at is the pop up
which is a way of displaying information next to or around another element.
So I'll show you the live demo this time to speed things up a little bit and it looks like that pretty
cool.
And you can get rid of it by clicking on the button again.
So let's copy the whole lot then
and we'll add that in underneath our buttons.
So let's just have a quick look at the code that does that.
It's very simple it's just a single button with the type of button and then classes for styling.
But this time we're toggling a pop over and the actual content of the popovers is actually contained
within data elements in the button itself.
So I've got the title and we've got the content right there.
Notice that if we run this and click.
Nothing happens.
Now that's for two reasons.
Firstly we need to include a third party library to get popovers working and we can see that up here
the popovers rely on the third party library Teather for positioning so we have to include that file
in order to make it work.
So let's do that let's find a Cdn or content delivery network for Teather
CDN.
Stock come
great.
So all we need is the teather javascript and we might as well go for the mini fied version.
So I'm just going to copy that link.
And then I'll insert it just before the bootstrap code and the usual way says script SIRC equals and
then we want that whole link there and then end the script we don't need any integrity of cross origin
attributes the sun and of course if you want to download the script instead then you could just do that
directly from there.
And the advantage then would be it's stored on your site and you have more control over it.
All right.
There is one more thing we need to do though.
Unlike modals popovers are not enabled by default for formants reasons.
So if you want to use them we need to manually enable them using a code similar to this.
So I'm going to pop this in to my javascript just there on the page and this will select all of the
items with the data Toko of pop over I.
All the popovers.
And then it will apply the Papaver function to them which will make them pop Ifis.
So that was two fairly major steps that we needed to do for popovers.
I wanted to show you but now we should find that when we click pop over it it displays So there I probably
want to do pop over and then hit the button.
So here's a quick challenge for you.
Can you switch the pop diva says at the bottom of the button rather than on the right.
Did you manage it.
It's just a matter of looking at the relative code.
So we've got Pavelka on top.
Right.
And then underneath that one bottom so we're going to want a third one along.
Let's have a look.
What's the code data placement.
Bottom line looks very relevant for us.
So let's just add that in.
Could get anywhere in our button code.
And then when that again and now the paper is at the bottom.
Fantastic.
So the last thing I want to show you then is tool tips and these are very similar to popovers.
But popovers tend to stay there till you manually dismiss them by clicking the button whereas tool tips
just appear on hover.
So back on bootstrap again then that's have a very quick look at tool tips.
And again for time I'll show you how they work on the site
and notice that we're going to need to enable them again.
They require tether as well.
But that's OK because we've already got tether set up.
So that's our code for that there.
And then
let's go for a tooltip on the bottom
for the same reason a put paper on the bottom.
So now we should be out to get that working.
There we go.
So the tool tips appear on hover and disappear when you move out of the button.
So a very quick final challenge then to see if you've got the hang of interacting with these things
can you create an alert which displays as soon as the tooltip itself displays.
Go for it.
All right.
Hey people that of
to do something when something else happens.
We're definitely looking at an event here OK and we've got show shown hide and hidden.
We definitely get to one either show or shown pending on whether you want it just before the tooltip
displays or just after.
I'm going to go for Sharon I think and we can see this a very similar syntax to what we used for the
motile So let's type it out ourselves because I think we can check out to see if tooltip has an ID.
No it doesn't.
So we could select it using this.
But I want to be a bit more specific so I'm going to give it an I.D. and my tool tip seems sensible.
That became And then we just selected in the usual way so with a hash for I.D. and then my Tooltip and
we want to do something on ID when a certain math certain event happens and the event that we're after
is not hidden it's showing up.
Strap docked tooltip
and we want that to happen.
Oh we want a certain function to happen when that's done and the function that we want is alert tooltip
displayed OK.
Cleanse the parenthesis.
And there we go.
That should do it.
Let's have a look.
Wonderful tooltip displayed.
Brilliant.
So that's giving you a bit of an idea how we interact with these components and a bit more detail using
Jay Querrey in the next video which is the final one before our big bootstrap challenge.
I'm going to get you to attempt to figure out how these scroll spy plugin works and create a working
version and you're bootstrapped or HVM our page.